README.md, before:

# EmailMiner.ai ETL Pipeline

This project processes email data from the Enron dataset using a custom ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) pipeline.

## Project Overview

The ETL project parses email data from the Enron Maildir dataset, extracting relevant information and preparing it for analysis. The parser handles email metadata, recipients, and content.

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ADC-GDIT-Spring-2025/ETL.git
   cd ETL
   ```

2. Set up a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   chmod +x setup_venv.sh
   ./setup_venv.sh
   ```
   
   This script will:
   - Create a Python virtual environment
   - Activate the environment
   - Install required dependencies (if requirements.txt exists)

3. If you need to manually activate the virtual environment later:
   ```bash
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

## Project Structure

```
ETL/
├── data/               # Directory for email data
│   └── maildir/        # All users and respective emails
│   └── data.tar.gz     # Compressed Enron dataset
├── util/               # Utility modules
│   └── fetch_data.py   # Creating dataset from Enron tarball
│   └── parser.py       # Email parsing functionality
├── main.py             # Main application entry point
├── setup_venv.sh       # Virtual environment setup script
└── README.md           # This documentation
```

## Usage

1. Ensure your virtual environment is activated:
   ```bash
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Run the fetching script to get data:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

3. Run the main script:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

4. The script will process the emails and output parsing statistics.

## Customization

You can modify the `main.py` file to:
- Change the input data directories
- Adjust the maximum number of emails to process
- Customize the output format

## Deactivating the Environment

When you're done working with the project, deactivate the virtual environment:
```bash
deactivate
```

Commit message:

Remove deprecated main.py, add parsing bash script
readme is also updated

README.md, after:

# EmailMiner.ai ETL Pipeline

This project processes email data from the Enron dataset using a custom ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) pipeline.

## Project Overview

The ETL project parses email data from the Enron Maildir dataset, extracting relevant information and preparing it for analysis. The parser handles email metadata, recipients, and content.

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.6 or higher
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/ADC-GDIT-Spring-2025/ETL.git
   cd ETL
   ```

2. Set up a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   chmod +x setup_venv.sh
   ./setup_venv.sh
   ```
   
   This script will:
   - Create a Python virtual environment
   - Activate the environment
   - Install required dependencies (if requirements.txt exists)

3. If you need to manually activate the virtual environment later:
   ```bash
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

## Project Structure

```
ETL/
├── data/               # Directory for email data
│   └── maildir/        # All users and respective emails
│   └── data.tar.gz     # Compressed Enron dataset
├── util/               # Utility modules
│   └── fetch_data.py   # Creating dataset from Enron tarball
│   └── parser.py       # Email parsing functionality
├── main.py             # Main application entry point
├── setup_venv.sh       # Virtual environment setup script
└── README.md           # This documentation
```

## Usage

1. Ensure your virtual environment is activated:
   ```bash
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```

2. Place your email data (named `data.tar.gz`) in the `data/` directory.

3. Run the fetching script to get data:
   ```bash
   python main.py
   ```

4. Run the main script:
   ```bash
   chmod +x etl_parse.sh
   ./etl_parse.sh
   ```
   
   This script will:
   - Read `data.tar.gz`
   - Create `data/maildir` directory with raw data files
   - Process raw files and output JSON objects with cleaned data

## Deactivating the Environment

When you're done working with the project, deactivate the virtual environment:
```bash
deactivate
```
